

This a model from the article:  
**Mechanism for the universal pattern of activity in developing neuronal networks.**   
Tabak J, Mascagni M, Bertram R. _J Neurophysiol_ 2010 Feb 17; [Epub ahead of
print] [20164396](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20164396) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Spontaneous episodic activity is a fundamental mode of operation of developing
networks. Surprisingly, the duration of an episode of activity correlates with
the length of the silent interval that precedes it, but not with the interval
that follows. Here we use a modeling approach to explain this characteristic
but so far unexplained feature of developing networks. Because the correlation
pattern is observed in networks with different structures and components, a
satisfactory model needs to generate the right pattern of activity regardless
of the details of network architecture or individual cell properties. We thus
developed simple models incorporating excitatory coupling between
heterogeneous neurons and activity-dependent synaptic depression. These models
robustly generated episodic activity with the correct correlation pattern. The
correlation pattern resulted from episodes being triggered at random levels of
recovery from depression while they terminated around the same level of
depression. To explain this fundamental difference between episode onset and
termination, we then used a mean field model, where only average activity and
average level of recovery from synaptic depression are considered. In this
model, episode onset is highly sensitive to inputs. Thus, noise resulting from
random coincidences in the spike times of individual neurons led to the high
variability at episode onset and to the observed correlation pattern. This
work further demonstrates that networks with widely different architectures,
different cell types and different functions, all operate according to the
same general mechanism early in their development.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Tabak J, Mascagni M, Bertram R. (2010) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/521786ef330e7443b41f34b5dacaf090)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

